# Functional Domain Modeling

Over the course of the creation and continued maintenance of large-scale software system platforms, it is inevitable that developers eventually be met with the following conundrum: is it more advantageous to continue with the platform’s familiar, established system modelling, or to rewrite it using the latest software? The former, while seemingly the safer and less costly option, may lead to significant issues in the future as the system becomes less and less compatible with the most up-to-date technology and as fewer and fewer people become available who truly understand the inner mechanisms of the application’s stored procedures. The results can be devastating as the system becomes increasingly difficult to use, and indeed to replace, as time goes on. However, rewriting the system in the latest technology has its own drawbacks. It can be a costly and demanding route, and there may be significant risks involved due to the potential for data loss or mistranslation. Additionally, it is quite possibly only a temporary fix, as the same situation may arise a few years down the line as technology continues to develop.

So is there a proper solution to this conundrum, one that takes into account long-term advancements in software while limiting the risk and waste of resources involved with continually rewriting systems? Well, let’s take a look at the root of the problem. In many cases, an application’s business logic is tightly intertwined with its technological choices of the moment. While it may seem logical to have these features be codependent, it does not take into consideration the potential future need for advancement in technology. When the time comes to advance, doing so will be restricted by the close relationship between the technology and the business logic, which by nature remains relatively stagnant. The clear remedy is to decouple the two concepts. Why embed your application’s most important asset in something so volatile?
